CogTool includes support for running with CORE as its back end instead
of ACT-R. 

This support for CORE has only been tested on Macintosh. While it is
believed all the functionality, other than Edit .irg File, probably
will work on Windows that has never been tested.

This document corresponds to CogTool trunk revision 2106.

To use this:

Ensure CORE is installed. Details for doing this, and for installing
the underlying Prolog interpreter, are beyond the scope of this note.

Ensure that CORE is in your PATH variable. If it is desired to run the
IRG file foo.irg, it must be possible to type at a login shell

   core foo.irg

and have that launch CORE and process the file. Note that core must
actually be in your PATH, it may not merely be a bash alias.

CORE reads and writes several files, many with fixed names, when it
runs. For each task/design pair that will use CORE you should plan on
a directory to hold these files, to prevent different task/design pairs
from overwriting them.

Create a design in the usual way in CogTool. Create a task, though
don't bother demonstrating it. Bring up the context menu
(control-click or right click on the intersection in the project
window) on that design/task pair. Set the Algorithm Type to
"CORE". You will probably also want to set the Algorithm Execution to
"Execute in Background".

Now, again using the context menu, select "Generate CORE .irg
File". This will prompt you for a location into which to store the
various files associated with the task/design pair. After choosing the
directory you wish to use, several files will be written into it. The
one of greatest interest is the name of the task with the extension
.irg added. This is a template for the IRG you wish to use.

You can edit this .irg file as you wish. One easy way is to use the
"Edit CORE .irg File" command from the context menu. This will bring
up whatever is set as your systems default text editor on the
appropriate .irg file. Note that the syntax and semantics of CORE IRG
is beyond the scope of this note.

After saving the edited .irg file from whatever editor you have used,
return to CogTool. Select "Recompute" from the context menu. If you
have set the  design/task pair to "Execute in Background" a window
should popup showing the progress of CORE. If CORE goes into a long or
infinite loop and you'd like to stop it the Cancel button on this
dialog will do so.

If CORE runs to successful completion you can now pick "Select CORE
Strategy" from the context menu. This will present a bar graph of the
payoffs of the various strategies, ordered by decreasing
payoff. Click on the strategy you'd like to see, click "Show
Visualization", and a visualization window showing that strategy will
pop up.

Note that the "Import CORE .irg File" command in the context menu
currently does not do anything. You can get the same effect, however,
simply by (a) creating a directory to hold the CORE files as above,
and then (b) pasting the contents of the .irg file you'd like to
import into the generated .irg file template.

